docs/lesson-schema.md, before:

# Lesson Schema Documentation

## Overview

This document describes the structure of individual lesson YAML files used for learning content. The schema is designed to be flexible and support learning any topic — languages, math, theory exams, and more.

> **Note**: This document covers individual lesson files only. For information about the index files that organize lessons (`index.yaml`, `topics.yaml`, `lessons.yaml`), see [YAML Schemas Documentation](yaml-schemas.md).

## Format

Lessons are stored in **YAML** format for human readability and ease of editing.

## File Organization

```
lessons/
├── index.yaml              # Root index: lists all languages
├── deutsch/                    # Language folder
│   ├── topics.yaml            # Lists topics for this language
│   ├── portugiesisch/         # Topic folder
│   │   ├── lessons.yaml       # Lists lesson folder names
│   │   ├── 01-basics/         # Individual lesson folders
│   │   │   ├── content.yaml   # Lesson content
│   │   │   └── audio/         # Audio files for this lesson
│   │   │       ├── title.mp3
│   │   │       ├── 0-0-q.mp3
│   │   │       └── 0-0-a.mp3
│   │   ├── 02-verbs/
│   │   │   ├── content.yaml
│   │   │   └── audio/
│   │   └── ...
│   └── englisch/
│       ├── lessons.yaml
│       ├── 01-greetings/
│       │   ├── content.yaml
│       │   └── audio/
│       └── ...
├── english/                    # Another language folder
│   ├── topics.yaml
│   ├── german/                # Topic folder
│   │   ├── lessons.yaml
│   │   └── ...
│   └── math-algebra/          # Non-language topics also supported
│       ├── lessons.yaml
│       └── ...
└── ...
```

Lessons are organized in a **three-level hierarchy**:

**Hierarchy**: Language → Topic → Lesson

1. **Root level**: `index.yaml` defines available languages (interface languages)
2. **Language level**: Each language folder contains `topics.yaml` listing available topics
3. **Topic level**: Each topic folder contains `lessons.yaml` listing lesson files

**Language vs. Topic**:
- **Language** (`deutsch`, `english`): The interface/base language used for explanations
- **Topic** (`portugiesisch`, `englisch`, `math-algebra`): The subject being taught

This structure allows maximum flexibility - you can learn Portuguese in German (`deutsch/portugiesisch/`) or in English (`english/portugese/`), or even learn non-language topics like `english/driver-license/`.

See [yaml-schemas.md](yaml-schemas.md) for detailed documentation on the index files.

## Lesson Structure

### Top Level

```yaml
version: 2                          # Lesson format version (integer, optional)
number: 1                           # Lesson number (integer)
title: "Lesson Title"               # Lesson title (string)
description: "Brief description"    # Optional lesson description
sections: [...]                     # Array of sections (see below)
```

**Version Field**:
- **version** (integer, optional): Lesson format version number
- Current version: `2`
- Used to track lesson format changes and ensure compatibility
- Version 1 content is fully backward compatible
- If omitted, assumed to be version 1

### Section Structure

Each lesson contains 5-10 sections. Sections have:

```yaml
sections:
  - title: "Section Title"          # Section title (string)
    video: "https://youtube.com/watch?v=abc123"  # Optional video URL
    explanation: |                  # Optional markdown explanation
      This is an **explanation** of the section.
      It supports _markdown_ formatting.
    examples: [...]                 # Array of examples (see below)
```

**Video Field** (optional):
- Displayed above the explanation as an embedded video
- YouTube watch URLs (`youtube.com/watch?v=...`) and short URLs (`youtu.be/...`) are automatically converted to embed URLs
- Other URLs (e.g., Vimeo embed URLs) are used as-is in an iframe

### Example Structure

Examples follow the q/a/rel pattern and support multiple types:

```yaml
examples:
  # Default: Q&A (type field optional, defaults to "qa")
  - q: "Question or source sentence"    # Question/source language
    a: "Answer or target sentence"      # Answer/target language
    labels: ["Futur", "Gerundium"]      # Optional labels for categorization
    rel:                                # Related items (vocabulary, etc.)
      - ["term1", "translation1"]       # Each item is an array of strings
      - ["term2", "translation2"]       # First element is the item ID
```

### Assessment Types (version 2)

The `type` field controls how an example is rendered and interacted with. When absent, defaults to `qa` (backward compatible).

**Input** — free text answer:

```yaml
  - type: input
    q: "Translate: Eu sou professor."
    a: "Ich bin Lehrer."               # Single correct answer (optional)
    # Or multiple accepted answers:
    # a:
    #   - "Ich bin Lehrer."
    #   - "Ich bin ein Lehrer."
```

**Multiple Choice** — checkboxes, multiple correct answers possible:

```yaml
  - type: multiple-choice
    q: "Which are correct translations of 'ser'?"
    options:
      - text: "sein (dauerhaft)"
        correct: true                  # correct is optional; omit for no validation
      - text: "haben"
      - text: "sein (Identität)"
        correct: true
```

**Select** — radio buttons, single correct answer:

```yaml
  - type: select
    q: "Which is the correct conjugation?"
    options:
      - text: "eu sou"
        correct: true
      - text: "eu estou"
      - text: "eu tenho"
```

**Notes:**
- User answers are stored locally in the browser for later review
- If `correct` markers are provided in `options` (or `a` for input), the user receives immediate feedback after submitting
- If no correct answers are defined, the submission is recorded without validation

### Labels (Optional)

Examples can have optional labels to categorize them by grammar concepts or topics:

- **Format**: Array of strings
- **Usage**: Labels like "Gerundium", "Futur", "Passiv", "Präteritum", etc.
- **Display**: Shown on example cards, not as titles
- **Searchability**: Allows filtering and searching examples by label

#### Example:

```yaml
examples:
  - q: "Ela vai estudar medicina."
    a: "Sie wird Medizin studieren."
    labels: ["Futur"]
    rel:
      - ["vai", "geht/wird (sie/er)", "verb - ir"]
      - ["estudar", "studieren", "verb"]
```

### Related Items (`rel`)

Related items are vocabulary or concepts associated with an example:

- **Format**: Array of arrays
- **First element**: Acts as the unique identifier for the item
- **Elements**: Can be 2 or more strings (or numbers)
- **Multiple examples**: Can reference the same item using the same first element
- **Learning tracking**: Items can be marked as learned independently

#### Example:

```yaml
rel:
  - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]           # Portuguese word, German translation, part of speech
  - ["cansado", "müde", "adjective"]   # Another vocabulary item
  - ["estar", "sein (temporär)"]       # Two strings only
```

When an example is marked as learned, all its related items can be marked as learned. The same item (identified by the first term) can appear in multiple examples.

## Complete Example

Here's a complete lesson file example:

```yaml
number: 1
title: "Basic Verbs - Ser and Estar"
description: "Learn the difference between permanent and temporary states of being"
sections:
  - title: "SER - Permanent Being"
    explanation: |
      **SER** is used for permanent or inherent characteristics:
      - Identity (nationality, profession)
      - Characteristics (personality, physical traits)
      - Time and dates
      
      Conjugation: eu sou, tu és, ele/ela é, nós somos, eles/elas são
    examples:
      - q: "Eu sou alemão."
        a: "Ich bin Deutscher."
        rel:
          - ["sou", "bin (ich)", "verb"]
          - ["alemão", "Deutscher", "noun"]
      - q: "Ela é médica."
        a: "Sie ist Ärztin."
        rel:
          - ["é", "ist (sie)", "verb"]
          - ["médica", "Ärztin", "noun"]
      - q: "Nós somos uma equipa."
        a: "Wir sind ein Team."
        rel:
          - ["somos", "sind (wir)", "verb"]
          - ["equipa", "Team", "noun"]
  
  - title: "ESTAR - Temporary Being"
    explanation: |
      **ESTAR** is used for temporary states or locations:
      - Emotions and feelings
      - Location
      - Temporary conditions
      
      Conjugation: eu estou, tu estás, ele/ela está, nós estamos, eles/elas estão
    examples:
      - q: "Eu estou cansado."
        a: "Ich bin müde."
        rel:
          - ["estou", "bin (ich)", "verb"]
          - ["cansado", "müde", "adjective"]
      - q: "Ela está no escritório."
        a: "Sie ist im Büro."
        rel:
          - ["está", "ist (sie)", "verb"]
          - ["escritório", "Büro", "noun"]
      - q: "Nós estamos prontos."
        a: "Wir sind bereit."
        rel:
          - ["estamos", "sind (wir)", "verb"]
          - ["prontos", "bereit", "adjective"]
```

## Learning Progress Tracking

### Marking Items as Learned

Items can be marked as learned individually:

```javascript
// Item ID is the first element of the rel array
const itemId = "casa";  // From ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]

// Track learned items
learnedItems = ["casa", "cansado", "médica"];
```

### Marking Examples as Learned

When an example is marked as learned, you can optionally mark all its related items as learned:

```javascript
example.rel.forEach(item => {
  const itemId = item[0];
  learnedItems.push(itemId);
});
```

### Cross-Example Item Tracking

The same vocabulary item can appear in multiple examples. The first term acts as a unique identifier:

```yaml
# Example 1
examples:
  - q: "Eu tenho uma casa."
    a: "Ich habe ein Haus."
    rel:
      - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]

# Example 2 (different lesson)
examples:
  - q: "A casa é grande."
    a: "Das Haus ist groß."
    rel:
      - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]  # Same item ID "casa"
```

Both examples reference the same vocabulary item. When marked as learned from either example, it's considered learned globally.

### Filtering by Labels

Labels enable filtering and searching examples by grammar concepts:

```javascript
// Get all examples with "Futur" label
function getExamplesByLabel(lesson, label) {
  const results = [];
  lesson.sections.forEach(section => {
    section.examples.forEach(example => {
      if (example.labels && example.labels.includes(label)) {
        results.push(example);
      }
    });
  });
  return results;
}

// Usage
const futurExamples = getExamplesByLabel(lesson, "Futur");
```

## Folder Structure and Language Specification

Each lesson is self-contained in its own folder with content and audio files:

- **Path**: `lessons/<language>/<topic>/<lesson-folder>/`
- **Content**: `lessons/<language>/<topic>/<lesson-folder>/content.yaml`
- **Audio**: `lessons/<language>/<topic>/<lesson-folder>/audio/`
- **Example**: `lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/`
  - Language: German (deutsch)
  - Topic: Portuguese (portugiesisch)
  - Lesson: 01-verbs

This folder-based structure makes lessons **portable** and **self-contained**:
- Each lesson folder can be shared independently
- Audio files stay with their lesson content
- Lessons can be hosted anywhere (local, IPFS, CDN) with just a URL to the folder
- Easy to version control and distribute individual lessons

## Audio Files

Audio files for pronunciation are stored in the `audio/` subfolder within each lesson:

### Audio File Naming Convention

```
<lesson-folder>/audio/
├── title.mp3           # Lesson title
├── 0-title.mp3         # Section 0 title
├── 0-0-q.mp3          # Section 0, Example 0, Question
├── 0-0-a.mp3          # Section 0, Example 0, Answer
├── 0-1-q.mp3          # Section 0, Example 1, Question
├── 0-1-a.mp3          # Section 0, Example 1, Answer
├── 1-title.mp3         # Section 1 title
├── 1-0-q.mp3          # Section 1, Example 0, Question
└── ...
```

### Generating Audio

Use the `generate-audio.sh` script to automatically create audio files:

```bash
# Generate audio for all lessons
./generate-audio.sh

# Force regenerate all audio
./generate-audio.sh -f

# Generate audio for a single lesson
./generate-audio.sh public/lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/

# Force regenerate single lesson
./generate-audio.sh -f public/lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/
```

The script uses:
- **yq** for YAML parsing
- **macOS `say`** for text-to-speech
- **ffmpeg** for MP3 conversion

Audio files are automatically generated based on the language codes defined in `topics.yaml` and `index.yaml`.

## Best Practices

1. **Number lessons sequentially** starting from 01
2. **Keep sections focused** on one topic (5-10 sections per lesson)
3. **Include 3-5 examples** per section
4. **Use markdown** in explanations for formatting
5. **Be consistent** with vocabulary terms (same term = same ID)
6. **Add context** in rel items (part of speech, usage notes)
7. **Progressive difficulty** - order lessons from simple to complex
8. **Use labels** to categorize examples by grammar concepts
9. **Organize folders** by language/topic hierarchy

## Schema Flexibility

This schema is intentionally generic and can be used for:

- **Language learning** (primary use case)
- **Vocabulary building**
- **Grammar exercises**
- **Any Q&A style learning**

Simply adjust `q` and `a` to represent whatever you're teaching/learning, and use `rel` for associated reference materials.

Commit message:

refactor: rename topic/teaching terminology to workshop across codebase (#35)
Unify naming convention: the subject being learned is now consistently
called "workshop" in code, routes, docs, and YAML schemas.

- Route param :teaching → :workshop
- Composable functions: loadTopicsForLanguage → loadWorkshopsForLanguage,
  loadLessonsForTopic → loadLessonsForWorkshop, etc.
- Variables: topicCodes → workshopCodes, topicSlugMap → workshopSlugMap
- Views: all template vars and function params updated
- YAML: topics.yaml → workshops.yaml (backwards-compat fallback kept)
- Docs and CLAUDE.md updated throughout
- localStorage key: lastTeachingTopic → lastWorkshop

docs/lesson-schema.md, after:

# Lesson Schema Documentation

## Overview

This document describes the structure of individual lesson YAML files used for learning content. The schema is designed to be flexible and support learning any subject — languages, math, theory exams, and more.

> **Note**: This document covers individual lesson files only. For information about the index files that organize lessons (`index.yaml`, `workshops.yaml`, `lessons.yaml`), see [YAML Schemas Documentation](yaml-schemas.md).

## Format

Lessons are stored in **YAML** format for human readability and ease of editing.

## File Organization

```
lessons/
├── index.yaml              # Root index: lists all languages
├── deutsch/                    # Language folder
│   ├── workshops.yaml         # Lists workshops for this language
│   ├── portugiesisch/         # Workshop folder
│   │   ├── lessons.yaml       # Lists lesson folder names
│   │   ├── 01-basics/         # Individual lesson folders
│   │   │   ├── content.yaml   # Lesson content
│   │   │   └── audio/         # Audio files for this lesson
│   │   │       ├── title.mp3
│   │   │       ├── 0-0-q.mp3
│   │   │       └── 0-0-a.mp3
│   │   ├── 02-verbs/
│   │   │   ├── content.yaml
│   │   │   └── audio/
│   │   └── ...
│   └── englisch/
│       ├── lessons.yaml
│       ├── 01-greetings/
│       │   ├── content.yaml
│       │   └── audio/
│       └── ...
├── english/                    # Another language folder
│   ├── workshops.yaml
│   ├── german/                # Workshop folder
│   │   ├── lessons.yaml
│   │   └── ...
│   └── math-algebra/          # Non-language workshops also supported
│       ├── lessons.yaml
│       └── ...
└── ...
```

Lessons are organized in a **three-level hierarchy**:

**Hierarchy**: Language → Workshop → Lesson

1. **Root level**: `index.yaml` defines available languages (interface languages)
2. **Language level**: Each language folder contains `workshops.yaml` listing available workshops
3. **Workshop level**: Each workshop folder contains `lessons.yaml` listing lesson files

**Language vs. Workshop**:
- **Language** (`deutsch`, `english`): The interface/base language used for explanations
- **Workshop** (`portugiesisch`, `englisch`, `math-algebra`): The subject being taught

This structure allows maximum flexibility - you can learn Portuguese in German (`deutsch/portugiesisch/`) or in English (`english/portugese/`), or even learn non-language workshops like `english/driver-license/`.

See [yaml-schemas.md](yaml-schemas.md) for detailed documentation on the index files.

## Lesson Structure

### Top Level

```yaml
version: 2                          # Lesson format version (integer, optional)
number: 1                           # Lesson number (integer)
title: "Lesson Title"               # Lesson title (string)
description: "Brief description"    # Optional lesson description
sections: [...]                     # Array of sections (see below)
```

**Version Field**:
- **version** (integer, optional): Lesson format version number
- Current version: `2`
- Used to track lesson format changes and ensure compatibility
- Version 1 content is fully backward compatible
- If omitted, assumed to be version 1

### Section Structure

Each lesson contains 5-10 sections. Sections have:

```yaml
sections:
  - title: "Section Title"          # Section title (string)
    video: "https://youtube.com/watch?v=abc123"  # Optional video URL
    explanation: |                  # Optional markdown explanation
      This is an **explanation** of the section.
      It supports _markdown_ formatting.
    examples: [...]                 # Array of examples (see below)
```

**Video Field** (optional):
- Displayed above the explanation as an embedded video
- YouTube watch URLs (`youtube.com/watch?v=...`) and short URLs (`youtu.be/...`) are automatically converted to embed URLs
- Other URLs (e.g., Vimeo embed URLs) are used as-is in an iframe

### Example Structure

Examples follow the q/a/rel pattern and support multiple types:

```yaml
examples:
  # Default: Q&A (type field optional, defaults to "qa")
  - q: "Question or source sentence"    # Question/source language
    a: "Answer or target sentence"      # Answer/target language
    labels: ["Futur", "Gerundium"]      # Optional labels for categorization
    rel:                                # Related items (vocabulary, etc.)
      - ["term1", "translation1"]       # Each item is an array of strings
      - ["term2", "translation2"]       # First element is the item ID
```

### Assessment Types (version 2)

The `type` field controls how an example is rendered and interacted with. When absent, defaults to `qa` (backward compatible).

**Input** — free text answer:

```yaml
  - type: input
    q: "Translate: Eu sou professor."
    a: "Ich bin Lehrer."               # Single correct answer (optional)
    # Or multiple accepted answers:
    # a:
    #   - "Ich bin Lehrer."
    #   - "Ich bin ein Lehrer."
```

**Multiple Choice** — checkboxes, multiple correct answers possible:

```yaml
  - type: multiple-choice
    q: "Which are correct translations of 'ser'?"
    options:
      - text: "sein (dauerhaft)"
        correct: true                  # correct is optional; omit for no validation
      - text: "haben"
      - text: "sein (Identität)"
        correct: true
```

**Select** — radio buttons, single correct answer:

```yaml
  - type: select
    q: "Which is the correct conjugation?"
    options:
      - text: "eu sou"
        correct: true
      - text: "eu estou"
      - text: "eu tenho"
```

**Notes:**
- User answers are stored locally in the browser for later review
- If `correct` markers are provided in `options` (or `a` for input), the user receives immediate feedback after submitting
- If no correct answers are defined, the submission is recorded without validation

### Labels (Optional)

Examples can have optional labels to categorize them by grammar concepts or topics:

- **Format**: Array of strings
- **Usage**: Labels like "Gerundium", "Futur", "Passiv", "Präteritum", etc.
- **Display**: Shown on example cards, not as titles
- **Searchability**: Allows filtering and searching examples by label

#### Example:

```yaml
examples:
  - q: "Ela vai estudar medicina."
    a: "Sie wird Medizin studieren."
    labels: ["Futur"]
    rel:
      - ["vai", "geht/wird (sie/er)", "verb - ir"]
      - ["estudar", "studieren", "verb"]
```

### Related Items (`rel`)

Related items are vocabulary or concepts associated with an example:

- **Format**: Array of arrays
- **First element**: Acts as the unique identifier for the item
- **Elements**: Can be 2 or more strings (or numbers)
- **Multiple examples**: Can reference the same item using the same first element
- **Learning tracking**: Items can be marked as learned independently

#### Example:

```yaml
rel:
  - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]           # Portuguese word, German translation, part of speech
  - ["cansado", "müde", "adjective"]   # Another vocabulary item
  - ["estar", "sein (temporär)"]       # Two strings only
```

When an example is marked as learned, all its related items can be marked as learned. The same item (identified by the first term) can appear in multiple examples.

## Complete Example

Here's a complete lesson file example:

```yaml
number: 1
title: "Basic Verbs - Ser and Estar"
description: "Learn the difference between permanent and temporary states of being"
sections:
  - title: "SER - Permanent Being"
    explanation: |
      **SER** is used for permanent or inherent characteristics:
      - Identity (nationality, profession)
      - Characteristics (personality, physical traits)
      - Time and dates
      
      Conjugation: eu sou, tu és, ele/ela é, nós somos, eles/elas são
    examples:
      - q: "Eu sou alemão."
        a: "Ich bin Deutscher."
        rel:
          - ["sou", "bin (ich)", "verb"]
          - ["alemão", "Deutscher", "noun"]
      - q: "Ela é médica."
        a: "Sie ist Ärztin."
        rel:
          - ["é", "ist (sie)", "verb"]
          - ["médica", "Ärztin", "noun"]
      - q: "Nós somos uma equipa."
        a: "Wir sind ein Team."
        rel:
          - ["somos", "sind (wir)", "verb"]
          - ["equipa", "Team", "noun"]
  
  - title: "ESTAR - Temporary Being"
    explanation: |
      **ESTAR** is used for temporary states or locations:
      - Emotions and feelings
      - Location
      - Temporary conditions
      
      Conjugation: eu estou, tu estás, ele/ela está, nós estamos, eles/elas estão
    examples:
      - q: "Eu estou cansado."
        a: "Ich bin müde."
        rel:
          - ["estou", "bin (ich)", "verb"]
          - ["cansado", "müde", "adjective"]
      - q: "Ela está no escritório."
        a: "Sie ist im Büro."
        rel:
          - ["está", "ist (sie)", "verb"]
          - ["escritório", "Büro", "noun"]
      - q: "Nós estamos prontos."
        a: "Wir sind bereit."
        rel:
          - ["estamos", "sind (wir)", "verb"]
          - ["prontos", "bereit", "adjective"]
```

## Learning Progress Tracking

### Marking Items as Learned

Items can be marked as learned individually:

```javascript
// Item ID is the first element of the rel array
const itemId = "casa";  // From ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]

// Track learned items
learnedItems = ["casa", "cansado", "médica"];
```

### Marking Examples as Learned

When an example is marked as learned, you can optionally mark all its related items as learned:

```javascript
example.rel.forEach(item => {
  const itemId = item[0];
  learnedItems.push(itemId);
});
```

### Cross-Example Item Tracking

The same vocabulary item can appear in multiple examples. The first term acts as a unique identifier:

```yaml
# Example 1
examples:
  - q: "Eu tenho uma casa."
    a: "Ich habe ein Haus."
    rel:
      - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]

# Example 2 (different lesson)
examples:
  - q: "A casa é grande."
    a: "Das Haus ist groß."
    rel:
      - ["casa", "Haus", "noun"]  # Same item ID "casa"
```

Both examples reference the same vocabulary item. When marked as learned from either example, it's considered learned globally.

### Filtering by Labels

Labels enable filtering and searching examples by grammar concepts:

```javascript
// Get all examples with "Futur" label
function getExamplesByLabel(lesson, label) {
  const results = [];
  lesson.sections.forEach(section => {
    section.examples.forEach(example => {
      if (example.labels && example.labels.includes(label)) {
        results.push(example);
      }
    });
  });
  return results;
}

// Usage
const futurExamples = getExamplesByLabel(lesson, "Futur");
```

## Folder Structure and Language Specification

Each lesson is self-contained in its own folder with content and audio files:

- **Path**: `lessons/<language>/<workshop>/<lesson-folder>/`
- **Content**: `lessons/<language>/<workshop>/<lesson-folder>/content.yaml`
- **Audio**: `lessons/<language>/<workshop>/<lesson-folder>/audio/`
- **Example**: `lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/`
  - Language: German (deutsch)
  - Workshop: Portuguese (portugiesisch)
  - Lesson: 01-verbs

This folder-based structure makes lessons **portable** and **self-contained**:
- Each lesson folder can be shared independently
- Audio files stay with their lesson content
- Lessons can be hosted anywhere (local, IPFS, CDN) with just a URL to the folder
- Easy to version control and distribute individual lessons

## Audio Files

Audio files for pronunciation are stored in the `audio/` subfolder within each lesson:

### Audio File Naming Convention

```
<lesson-folder>/audio/
├── title.mp3           # Lesson title
├── 0-title.mp3         # Section 0 title
├── 0-0-q.mp3          # Section 0, Example 0, Question
├── 0-0-a.mp3          # Section 0, Example 0, Answer
├── 0-1-q.mp3          # Section 0, Example 1, Question
├── 0-1-a.mp3          # Section 0, Example 1, Answer
├── 1-title.mp3         # Section 1 title
├── 1-0-q.mp3          # Section 1, Example 0, Question
└── ...
```

### Generating Audio

Use the `generate-audio.sh` script to automatically create audio files:

```bash
# Generate audio for all lessons
./generate-audio.sh

# Force regenerate all audio
./generate-audio.sh -f

# Generate audio for a single lesson
./generate-audio.sh public/lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/

# Force regenerate single lesson
./generate-audio.sh -f public/lessons/deutsch/portugiesisch/01-verbs/
```

The script uses:
- **yq** for YAML parsing
- **macOS `say`** for text-to-speech
- **ffmpeg** for MP3 conversion

Audio files are automatically generated based on the language codes defined in `workshops.yaml` and `index.yaml`.

## Best Practices

1. **Number lessons sequentially** starting from 01
2. **Keep sections focused** on one concept (5-10 sections per lesson)
3. **Include 3-5 examples** per section
4. **Use markdown** in explanations for formatting
5. **Be consistent** with vocabulary terms (same term = same ID)
6. **Add context** in rel items (part of speech, usage notes)
7. **Progressive difficulty** - order lessons from simple to complex
8. **Use labels** to categorize examples by grammar concepts
9. **Organize folders** by language/workshop hierarchy

## Schema Flexibility

This schema is intentionally generic and can be used for:

- **Language learning** (primary use case)
- **Vocabulary building**
- **Grammar exercises**
- **Any Q&A style learning**

Simply adjust `q` and `a` to represent whatever you're teaching/learning, and use `rel` for associated reference materials.
